flatty their internet people it's bubble
gum so tonight we're going to talk about
something I've been asked a lot but
anytime I'm asked about it's very vague
and I don't really know what people want
to hear because it's a huge topic and
then a couple days ago I got a question
that kind of brought it all into focus
somebody said they were trying to find
it in the Constitution and couldn't I
bet you couldn't because it's not there
so tonight we're going to talk about the
separation of church and state it's a
philosophical concept it's a concept of
jurisprudence it's not a constitutional
one overtly it's implied it is implied
but it's not overtly stated anywhere in
the Constitution they didn't think they
needed to at the time the people who
wrote the Constitution it was a given it
was just accepted the United States was
going to be a secular nation it's
enshrined in a way in the First
Amendment Congress shall make no law
respecting the establishment of a
religion or the free exercise thereof
now if you read the debate over how that
was gonna be phrased it becomes very
very clear no law in favor or against so
nobody could be forced to participate in
a religious activity and Congress
couldn't stop you from participating in
a religious activity so what it meant
it's a real simple concept when people
say the separation of church and state
especially the Supreme Court they're
normally referring to Jefferson's letter
to some Baptists and that's what gets
cited however almost all of our founders
used this phrase in one way or another
some of them said there's a wall between
church and state some said there's a
hedge
Madison used it everybody you said the
US was designed to be a secular nation
no law in favor or against any religion
that was the idea when you tell people
this they will often say the United
States was founded as a Christian nation
okay
shortly after the Constitution was
written and adopted so shortly after
that the same people were still around a
treaty was adopted we've learned in
other videos treaties are law the
Supremacy Clause of the Constitution
dictates that so anything that's in a
treaty is US law in 1797 the United
States signed a treaty with Tripoli
article 11 states as the government of
the United States of America is not in
any sense founded on the Christian
religion so the people who wrote the
Constitution were around when this came
into being
it wasn't the idea that the United
States was supposed to be a Christian
nation is demonstrable if false it's
wrong it's not true it was supposed to
be secular does that mean that our
founders weren't Christians no some of
them were some were atheists some were
deists what it means is they understood
the dangers of theocracy and they didn't
want it they wanted nothing to do with
it so how does this apply to our
hot-button issues of today kids praying
in schools can children pray at school
absolutely can a teacher lead them no
what if the teachers off doing it on
their off time
yeah if it's voluntary on the students
part if it's voluntary there's nothing
stopping a school from allowing a priest
to come in as long as they do it for
every religion in every denomination and
it's completely voluntary that's the key
part it has to be free of coercion what
about let's see Ten Commandment
monuments at courthouses
intent matters there if it's the Ten
Commandments next to the Code of
Hammurabi it's a display of
jurisprudence history yeah no big deal
if it's a religious monument out front
trying to show that it's a Christian
nation well then it's an issue because
you're violating the Constitution and
oddly enough depending on your doctrine
you're probably also violating the Ten
Commandments you might want to read
those what about people getting married
legally if you can enter into a contract
you should be able to get married period
full stop that should be the end of the
qualifications right there now does that
mean that the government can fir force
the first self-righteous Church of
wherever to marry people it doesn't want
to know no law for or against well what
if you're a clerk and you're sincerely
held religious beliefs say that you
think these people shouldn't get married
you don't have to issue a marriage
license because you're a religious
freedom nope when you are working for
the government as an agent of government
you have no religious freedom the wall
is up separation of church and state
what about people who want to use their
religious beliefs as an excuse it's not
cater to certain people
that's where it gets tricky government
cannot force people to abandon their
religious principles in a private
setting however government can regulate
public accommodations so that
constitutionally that's a gray area
hasn't really been decided there's been
a few cases about it but it's not
concrete yet at the end of the day I
think it'll probably go back to what's
in the Civil Rights Act what's defined
as a public accommodation there will
have to be available to everybody
regardless of your sincerely held
religious beliefs
what about In God We Trust on our money
that's when I go back and forth on it's
not really enforcing a religion on
anybody it's very generic it doesn't
require anything of you I think the
founders would probably look at that and
be like mmm that's not really what we
wanted but we're not gonna be real mad
about it
I personally like what was on our first
coin the first coin the u.s. put into
circulation
it didn't say In God We Trust it didn't
say he pluribus unum it summed up the
entire Bill of Rights because the entire
Bill of Rights really it's your right to
be left alone to really what it boils
down to and that coin the Franklin sent
well it just said mind your business
anyway it's just a thought you'll have a
good night